= Jabber::MUCBot

Easily create simple regex powered Jabber Multi Users Chat bots.

This bot has been forked from Brett Stimmerman's Jabber::Bot.
The purpose is to create an even simpler MUC bot.
It will be able to join a room and execute public command.

Jabber::MUCBot makes it simple to create and command your own Jabber MUC bot.
Bots are created by defining commands powered by regular expressions and Ruby.

Bot part
*Author*::    Brett Stimmerman (mailto:brettstimmerman@gmail.com)
*Version*::   1.3.0 (2011-05-15)
*Copyright*:: Copyright (c) 2011 Brett Stimmerman. All rights reserved.

MUCBot part
*Author*::    Vivien Didelot (mailto:vivien.didelot@gmail.com)
*Version*::   0.0.1
*Copyright*:: Copyright (c) 2009 Brett Stimmerman. All rights reserved.

*License*::   New BSD License (http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php)
*Website*::   http://github.com/v0n/jabber-mucbot

== Requires

* rubygems
* xmpp4r

== Usage

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'jabber/mucbot'

  # Create a public Jabber::MUCBot
  config = {
    :nick      => 'bot',
    :password  => 'secret',
    :server    => 'example.org',
    :room      => 'room'
  }

  bot = Jabber::Bot.new(config)

  # Give your bot a private command, 'rand'
  bot.add_command(
    :syntax      => 'rand',
    :description => 'Produce a random number from 0 to 10',
    :regex       => /^rand$/
  ) { rand(10).to_s }

  # Give your bot a public command, 'puts <string>' with an alias 'p <string>'
  bot.add_command(
    :syntax      => 'puts <string>',
    :description => 'Write something to $stdout',
    :regex       => /^puts\s+(.+)$/,
    :alias       => [ :syntax => 'p <string>', :regex => /^p\s+(.+)$/ ],
    :is_public   => true
  ) do |sender, message|
    puts "#{sender} says '#{message}'"
    "'#{message}' written to $stdout"
  end

  bot = Jabber::MUCBot.new(config)

  # Give your bot a command, 'rand'
  bot.add_command(/^rand$/) { rand(10).to_s }

  # Give your bot a command, 'puts <string>'
  bot.add_command(/^puts\s+.+$/) do |sender, message|
    puts "#{sender} says '#{message}'"
    "'#{message}' written to $stdout"
  end

  # Add a custome welcome message
  bot.welcome { |guy| "Hello #{guy}!" }

  # Bring your new bot to life
  bot.join

All that can be done faster with the class method +start+.

  Jabber::MUCBot.start config do |bot|
    bot.on(/^rand$/) { rand(10).to_s }
    bot.on(/^puts\s+.+$/) do |sender, message|
      puts "#{sender} says '#{message}'"
      "'#{message}' written to $stdout"
    end
    bot.welcome { |guy| "Hello #{guy}!" }
  end
